Nalesniki with Cheese and Raisins (Russian Crepes)

Prep time: 15 mins Cook time: 20 mins Total time: 35 mins

Makes 15, 8-inch crepes. Note: replace 4 Tbsp butter with 4 Tbsp olive oil for a healthier version!

Author: Natasha of NatashasKitchen.com
Skill Level: Easy/Medium
Cost To Make: $6-$8
Serving: 6-8

Ingredients

For the Batter:
		½ cup lukewarm water
		1 cup milk
		4 large eggs
		4 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted. Plus more to sauté.
		1 cup all-purpose flour (you can use ½ cup whole wheat flour and ½ cup all-purpose)
		2 tablespoons sugar
		Pinch of Salt
For the Filling:
		8 oz package cream cheese, at room temperature
		16 oz small curd cottage cheese
		⅓ cup sugar
		¾ cup raisins
		Powdered sugar for serving (optional)

Instructions

How to Make the Crepes:
	1	Put all of the ingredients for the crepes (in the order that they are listed) ½ cup water, 1 cup milk, 4 large eggs, 4 Tbsp butter or olive oil, and 1 cup flour in a blender and blend until well combined.
	2	Melt a dot of butter in a non-stick skillet over medium heat (2 skillets make the process go faster).
	3	As you are pouring into the skillet, swirl the batter to evenly coat the bottom. If you get any small gaps, you can fill them with more batter. Depending on the size of your skillet; add about 2-3 tbsp of batter. I use a small ladle.
	4	Once the bottom is lightly golden (about a minute or less) flip the crepe using a sharp edged spatula to easily get under the crepe. Let the other side get lightly golden and plop the crepe out onto a cutting board. Repeat with remaining batter; you may not need to dot with butter after the first time if your skillet is a good one (and remember there is butter in the batter). Don’t stack hot crepes on top of each other. Once they are just warm or room temp, they can be stacked. Don’t panic, my first crepe never turns out nice so I wolf it down to conceal the evidence!
How to make cheese filling and complete nalesniki:
	1	In a colander, rinse the cottage cheese with cold water and drain well. Mash the cream cheese, cottage cheese and sugar with a potato masher until well combined and creamy. Cottage cheese will still be a little lumpy.
	2	Using a spatula, spread 2 generous Tablespoons of cheese filling on each crepe and sprinkle with about 15 raisins.
	3	Roll the crepe into a log and cut in half. Refrigerate crepes that aren’t being served. It keeps in the fridge for almost one week.
To Serve:
	1	Melt about 1 tablespoon of butter in a skillet and sauté the rolled cheese crepes on medium heat until golden brown on both sides. They don't take long to sauté. Be careful not to burn them.
	2	Dust with powered sugar (optional) and serve with sour cream or jam on the side.

Copyright © 2015 Natasha's Kitchen